COVID-19 UPDATE
Dear BUE Community,
I wanted to update you with what we are doing at BUE to support our students and staff during this difficult time.

Continued Suspension of On-campus Teaching
The suspension of on-campus teaching has been extended to 12 April 2020. BUE will continue teaching online following our Contingency Plan for Learning and Teaching. Please see the BUE website for full details. BUE continues to increase the range of online tools and facilities available to staff and student to help enhance the online learning and teaching experience. Please check your BUE email and the BUE website for regular updates.

Semester 2 Examinations
Semester 2 examinations will be moved to 30 May 2020 to 16 June 2020. Further details of the revised examination timetable will follow as soon as possible. No in-class tests or mid-term exams will take place for the rest of the Semester and Faculties will contact students as soon as possible regarding alternative assessment arrangements.

BUE Staff Working Off-Campus
Following the Prime Minister’s announcement on 25 March regarding further measures to control the spread of the Covid-19 corona virus, all BUE staff will be working off-campus until at least 29 March 2020. Staff will be working hard to make sure that student queries are answered either via email or on the telephone.

Student Engagement
I appreciate that this is a very difficult time for everyone, but it is important that students follow the instructions sent to them by their Faculties and continue with their studies. We will be monitoring students’ use of eLearning and contacting students who are not engaging with their studies to offer support. IT IS MORE IMPORTANT THAN EVER THAT STUDENTS READ THEIR BUE EMAILS REGULARLY and check the BUE website.

Student Guidance
We have already produced a General Guide for Students which appears on the BUE website. Over the coming days we will be creating a dedicated section on the BUE website for students where we will post a range of guidance to support students with their studies and other challenges arising from this current situation.
I am aware that the constantly changing situation is causing stress and uncertainty for all of us and we continue to think of those who are affected by the virus. You have my assurances that BUE is doing everything we can to support our students and staff during this difficult time. I am certain that if we all work together and follow the guidance issued by the government and the World Health Organisation, then normal life will return as soon as possible.

Kind Regards,
Professor Ahmed Hamad
BUE PRESIDENT
BUE PRESIDENT COVID-19 UPDATE (3)
Dear BUE Community,
I will now be providing weekly updates to the BUE community on what we are doing to deal with the impact of the Covid-19 outbreak.

Campus Closure and Semester 2 Assessment
The BUE campus is still closed and all teaching is taking place online. No in-class tests or mid-term exams will take place during closure period. We will update you with any changes immediately.

Online Learning Update
Events have moved rapidly in recent weeks and everyone at BUE has worked hard to move rapidly with the constantly changing situation. We have taken a great many positive steps to ensure that all eLearning activities have gone ahead where scheduled and we are maintaining our high standards of teaching delivery. An important part of this process has been reviewing what is working well and where there is room for improvement. To help us, we asked Faculties to report to us what feedback they have received from students.
I am pleased to say that the majority of feedback received so far has been positive and that most of the issues highlighted, especially those that arose in the first week of the closure period, have now been addressed. Any outstanding concerns are being addressed as follows:

A number of students have expressed concern over the emotional stress they have experienced studying at home. In response to this feedback we have produced a number of Support Guides that will soon be uploaded to the BUE web pages in a section dedicated to students. We will continue to produce and publish further guides as we move forward.
Students are also concerned about the possibility of a longer closure and how this will affect their studies. The situation is changing all the time and we will make sure that all of our students are informed immediately if there is any change. Everyone at BUE is also working hard planning for the possibility that the campus may need to be closed for longer. It’s important to remember that BUE is not alone and universities around the world are developing many solutions to the current problem. At BUE we will make sure that our students continue to receive high quality education and to achieve this we will continue to work together and with our university partners in the UK.
Some concerns have been expressed about how we are communicating with students. We are working on a number of improvements to our student communications, but as I stressed in my last message, it is essential that students check their BUE email regularly and read any messages carefully.
The vast majority of technical issues associated with the use of eLearning have now been resolved. However the ICS and IT teams are continuing to work tirelessly behind the scenes to ensure that eLearning remains up and running. If you are experiencing IT difficulties you should contact your Faculty eLearning coordinator, the dedicated BUE team (softwareproductionunit@bue.edu.eg) or your module leader.
Student feedback remains essential to us so we can continue to identify and resolve issues when they arise. Please continue to feedback directly to your Faculty or to your relevant SSLC Representative.

Home Working
BUE staff will continue to work off campus until at least 11 April 2020. During this period of home working staff are expected to carry on with their duties as far as possible and to be available by phone and email during normal working hours, from 9.00 am to 4:00 pm.
The last few weeks have been challenging for us all, both as a University community and as individuals. Students and their families will be concerned about the impact of this unprecedented situation on their studies and we are all concerned about the wellbeing of friends, family and loved ones.
I wish to thank you to all for your patience and understanding through this period. We recognise that it has not been easy, especially for those of you who may be less familiar with studying and teaching predominantly online and from home. We have absolute confidence that our students and staff will have the ingenuity and talents to emerge as strongly as they can from this crisis.

Best regards,
Professor Ahmed Hamad
BUE President
BUE PRESIDENT COVID-19 UPDATE (4)
 Dear BUE Community,
I will now be providing weekly updates to the BUE community on what we are doing to deal with the impact of the Covid-19 outbreak.

Campus Closure and Semester 2 Assessment
The Prime Minister has extended Egypt’s nationwide curfew to 23 April 2020. As a result, the BUE campus will remain closed until 23 April 2020 and teaching will continue following the BUE Contingency Plan for Learning and Teaching which can be found on the BUE Website https://www.bue.edu.eg/teach-and-learn-remotely/.
Students are asked to check their BUE emails and eLearning regularly and follow instructions from their Faculties. No in-class tests or mid-term exams will take place during this extended closure period, but we are working towards holding Semester 2 Exams on campus from 30 May 2020 to 16 June 2020. We will update you with any changes immediately they become known.

Online Learning Update
We continue to monitor the effectiveness of online learning on a daily basis and  to make improvements and enhancements based on student and staff feedback. We are also monitoring student engagement in eLearning and will be contacting students who have not been engaging in their studies via eLearning to offer support. Students are encouraged to contact their Faculties if they have any problems following the BUE Learning and Teaching Contingency Plan.

BUE Helping the Fight Against Covid-19
BUE has been leading a number of initiatives to help the country fight the Covid-19 pandemic. These initiatives include the Faculty of Pharmacy creating BUE- branded hand sanitiser which is has been distributing free of charge in El Sherouk and the BUE Nanotechnology Centre participating in an initiative called ‘Breathe’ to help produce 5,000 ventilators for Egyptian hospitals.
As the number of infections grows around the world, the BUE community can play their part in stopping the spread of the Covid-19 virus by:

Following good hygiene practice, especially hand washing
Staying at home other than for essential visits to buy food, medicine and to exercise
Practicing social distancing
Student Support
Before the campus closure was announced, BUE was well advanced in its plans to open a Student Hub in the basement of the BUE Library. The BUE Student Hub will be a friendly accessible facility where students will be able to find a range of advice and support on issues such as academic success, employability, support for students with disabilities and wellbeing support. We will go ahead with opening the Hub when campus life returns to normal, but in the meanwhile will be launching a ‘virtual’ Student Hub on the BUE website. It is hoped that the first phase of the BUE virtual Student Hub will be launched next week and I will provide further information as soon as possible.
The Department of Phycology, operating out of the Faculty of Arts and Humanities, has also launched online private support/counselling sessions for the month of April. This service can be accessed at:
https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=Bm7bI8QFnUixNsupSo5vNkoAe8-1pQ1OqvKirnjOV4ZUMUMyTjdLODlQUEI4S0w5S0RCQzlXUFM0Ry4u

Home Working
BUE staff will continue to work off campus until at least 23 April 2020. During this period of home working staff are expected to carry on with their duties as far as possible and to be available by phone and email during normal working hours, from 9.00 am to 4:00 pm.
This continues to be a troubling and uncertain time for the whole BUE community. We continue to do our best to support our students in their studies and to support the broader national and international efforts to beat Covid-19. I am proud of the BUE community and the work we continue to do together.

Best regards,
Professor Ahmed Hamad
BUE President
BUE PRESIDENT COVID-19 UPDATE (5) 
Dear BUE Community,
I will now be providing weekly updates to the BUE community on what we are doing to deal with the impact of the Covid-19 outbreak.

Campus Closure and Semester 2 Assessment
The Prime Minister has extended Egypt’s nationwide curfew to 23 April 2020. As a result, the BUE campus will remain closed at least until 23 April 2020. We have no information at the moment as to whether the closure period will be extended further, but students and staff will be informed immediately any further information is available. Plans for assessments for Semester 2 remain as previously reported.

Online Learning Update
We continue to monitor the effectiveness of online learning and to make improvements and enhancements based on student and staff feedback. We are grateful to students and staff for their hard work and commitment in making the difficult move from on-campus to online teaching and learning as success.

Sham El Nessim and Ramadan
Monday 20 April will be a national holiday for Sham El Nessim and no teaching will take place on that day. BUE will also move to a revised teaching timetable for Ramadan at the end of next week and students are reminded to check their BUE emails regularly for their revised teaching timetables. Staff working hours will also move to a revised timetable for Ramadan and further details will be communicated by the HR Department.

Fighting Covid-19 together
Students and staff are reminded that, as the number of infections grows around the world, the BUE community can play their part in stopping the spread of the Covid-19 virus by:

Following good hygiene practice, especially hand washing
Staying at home other than for essential visits to buy food, medicine and to exercise
Practicing social distancing
I am proud of the efforts that continue to be made by the BUE community.

Best regards,
Professor Ahmed Hamad
BUE President

UE PRESIDENT COVID-19 UPDATE (6) 
Dear BUE Community,
ONLINE TEACHING
The campus will remain closed for the rest of Semester 2 and teaching will continue online until 30 April 2020.
A reduced teaching timetable for Ramadan will be in place for the final teaching and revision weeks.
Students must complete all coursework and assessments scheduled for Semester 2. The final deadline for the submission of Semester 2 coursework and assessments is 15 May 2020 (unless otherwise specified before by your Department/Faculty)

FINAL YEAR STUDENTS
Examinations and practical assessments for final year students will be postponed until the campus reopens.
Final year practical assessments will take place two weeks after the campus is able to reopen following an announcement by the Egyptian Supreme Council for Universities. A schedule of final year practical assessments and final exams will be published as soon as a re-opening date is announced.
BUE will provide additional teaching and revision support to help final year students prepare for their final practical assessments and exams.

DISSERTATIONS AND GRADUATION PROJECTS
The deadline for the submission of final year assessment projects (e.g. dissertations and graduation projects) will be two weeks after all final year practical assessments and exams have been completed. The submission deadline for final year assessment projects will be published with the final year examination schedule. Final year assessment projects will be marked normally.

SEMESTER 2 EXAMINATIONS FOR OTHER YEARS
All other examinations for Semester 2 will be replaced with alternative assessments.
The Quality and Validation team will publish the schedule of all Semester 2 alternative assessments to students on 29 April 2020.
Semester 2 alternative assessments will take place between 30 May and 16 June 2020.
All Semester 2 marks will be recorded on the BUE transcript as either pass or fail. Marks for Semester 2 will not be considered in calculating the year or cumulative averages.
Full marks will be recorded on the UK transcript for those students studying for degrees awarded by London South Bank University or Queen Margaret University.

 SEMESTER 2 RESITS
Students who fail any of their Semester 2 coursework or assessments, including final practical assessments and exams, will be allowed to resit following BUE Academic Regulations.

SEMESTER 1
Marks for all Semester 1 assessments will be recorded as usual.
Students who failed any of their Semester 1 coursework or examinations will be allowed to resit following BUE Academic Regulations.

PRACTICAL TEACHING AND ASSESSMENT FOR OTHER YEARS
Practical teaching and assessment, other than for final year students, will be postponed until the end of the campus closure period.
If students are not able to complete practical teaching or assessment before the start of the 2020/21 Academic Year they will be allowed to progress to the next year and will make up the teaching time and assessments to schedules set by their Faculties.
Special arrangements will be agreed for international students who are prevented from returning to campus to complete their practice-based teaching or assessments.

POSTGRADUATE STUDENTS
Examinations for postgraduate students will be postponed until the campus reopens.
Revised exam schedules for postgraduate students will be published as soon as a re-opening date is announced. Postgraduate exams will be marked normally.
The closure period will not be counted as part of the study period required for the degree.
I am proud of the great efforts made by both our students and staff during this difficult period. You have helped make the move to online teaching a great success and have all played your part in helping Egypt fight the spread of Covid-19. I wish you success with your assessments and look forward to seeing you all back on campus as soon as we are able to re-open.

Best regards,
Professor Ahmed Hamad
BUE President

BUE PRESIDENT COVID-19 UPDATE (7)  
Dear BUE Community,
I hope this message finds you all well and safe.
Semester 2 teaching is now complete and I am sure both students and staff are now preparing for their end of Semester assessments. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all staff at BUE for their hard work and dedication which has made the move to online teaching a success despite the very difficult circumstances. I would also like to thank BUE students and their families for their ongoing commitment to BUE and to commend them on how well they have made the transition to online learning. I wish you all success in your assessments. I know it has been a stressful time for many students and you have been provided with a great deal of information regarding the many changes to your studies over the past weeks and the further changes to come. In particular, I know many of you were very concerned regarding the directions from the Egyptian Supreme Council for Universities regarding repeating students and students with trailing modules and I received many emails from concerned students and their families. I am very pleased to inform you that, following discussions with me and Presidents of other Egyptian universities, the Supreme Council has issued a revised decision for these students. Now, only repeating students and students with trailing modules in their final year will have to wait until campus reopens to sit final exams. All other years’ students will take alternative assessments from 30 May to 16 June. I would like to thank the Quality and Validation team who I know have dealt with a large number of queries on this issue. To help students understand all the changes that have been made a ‘Question and Answer’ document follows at the end of this communication. Please read it carefully as it will cover all the questions you may have about how you will be affected by changes to assessment following the campus closure.
I hope I will see you all again on campus soon.

Best regards,
Professor Ahmed Hamad
BUE President

Student Q&A on Changes to Assessment

What is the current situation?
As per the President’s communication on 24 April 2020 the campus will remain closed for the rest of semester 2 and any remaining teaching will continue online.
Students must complete all coursework and assessments scheduled for semester 2. The final deadline for the submission of semester 2 coursework and assessments is 15 May 2020 unless stated otherwise by your Faculty. Following consultation with the BUE President and staff, as well as students, the Egyptian Supreme Council for Universities has amended its decision on assessments for repeat year students and students taking trailing modules. This is reflected in the guidance below and differs from what was communicated previously. Please take the time to carefully read through the information below.

What is happening with examinations this semester?
A great deal of attention has gone into thinking about how assessments will be handled given the continued closure of the campus and the move to Virtual learning. This has happened alongside discussions with the Egyptian Supreme Council of Universities and our UK validating partners. As such, for all students apart from final year students, all unseen examinations due to take place at the end of semester 2 will be replaced by alternative forms of assessment. Schedules for the semester 2 final assessments are being published on the SRS. The schedules show the date / time of completing the assessment or the duration for completing the submission based on the nature of the assessment. Any questions regarding the nature or the requirements of assessed submissions should be directed to your relevant department.

When will alternative assessments take place?
Semester 2 alternative assessments will take place between 30 May and 16 June 2020 for all students apart from final year students unless stated otherwise. Practical teaching and assessment for all students will be postponed until the end of the campus closure period. If any students are not able to complete practical teaching or assessments before the start of the 2020/21 Academic Year they will be allowed to progress to the next year and will make up the practical teaching time and assessments to schedules set by their Faculties.

I am a final year student, what is the situation for me?
Examinations and practical assessments for final year students will be postponed until the campus reopens. The intention is for final year practical assessments to take place two weeks after the campus can reopen following an announcement by the Egyptian Supreme Council for Universities. A schedule of final year practical assessments and final exams will be published as soon as a re-opening date is announced.

Will additional support be provided for Final Year students?
Yes, BUE will provide additional teaching and revision support to help final year students prepare for their final practical assessments and exams. Further information will be provided by Faculties in due course.

I am a Repeating Student, what is the situation for me?
Examinations and practical assessments for repeating final year students will be postponed until the campus reopens. The intention is that assessments for repeating final year students will take place two weeks after the campus is able to reopen. A schedule of exams will be published as soon as a re-opening date is announced. Examinations for all other repeating students will be replaced by alternative forms of assessment.

I am taking a trailed module, what is the situation for me?
Examinations and practical assessments for final year students taking trailed modules will be postponed until the campus reopens. Examinations for all other students taking trailed modules will replaced by alternative forms of assessment.

Why are assessments going ahead?
The Egyptian Supreme Council of Universities has made the decision, in consultation with Universities across the country that assessments should proceed in various forms. It is not possible to simply cancel the assessments altogether and maintain the academic integrity of our programmes nor would it be in keeping with our University ethos. All reasonable steps have been taken to try and reach outcomes that reduce worry, stress, and uncertainty as much as possible.

Can this approach be altered?
Alongside the information that was made publicly available from the Egyptian Supreme Council for Universities a set of technical guidance for Universities to follow was also produced. This technical guidance specified approaches to assessment and distinguished between different approaches for different cohorts. All Universities are expected to stick to the guidelines as specified by the Egyptian Supreme Council for Universities. We are collecting student feedback and concerns raised through the Q&V team and are finding mutually agreeable and workable solutions wherever possible.

Will I be disadvantaged?
No. We have given careful thought and consideration and have adopted what is essentially a ‘no detriment’ approach. For students taking alternative assessments this approach will recognise your performance so far in the year. Final marks will not be negatively impacted by the alternative assessments that have been put in place. For Final year students additional support will be put in place to ‘bridge the gap’ between the end of term and the assessments themselves. Further information will be provided by Faculties in due course. All approaches, and agreed alternative assessments, have been carefully designed and reviewed, as well as approved by our validating Universities and external examiners.

How will my mark be determined?
For all students apart from final year students marks for semester 2 will not be considered in calculating the year or cumulative averages. The Q&V team is working on further guidance that will be shared in due course.

What about my transcript?
Semester 2 marks for all students apart from final year students will be recorded on the BUE transcript as either pass or fail. Full marks will be recorded on the UK transcript for those students studying for degrees awarded by London South Bank University or Queen Margaret University.

What happens if I fail a module?
Should you fail any modules (up to 60 credits) BUE Academic Regulations will be applied as in the case of a resit and you will be required to take, and pass, another piece of assessment.

What happens if I failed a module in semester 1?
Marks for all semester 1 assessments will be recorded as usual. Students who failed any of their semester 1 coursework or exams will be allowed to resit following BUE Academic Regulations.

How will Academic Misconduct and plagiarism be handled?
It is very important to note that regulations regarding Academic Misconduct and plagiarism will be applied as normal, please refer to sections 13 and 15 in the undergraduate regulations for more information, regulations are available under https://www.bue.edu.eg/quality-validation/

How will alternative assessments work with Turnitin?
Students who are required to use Turnitin.com to submit work must use their BUE email accounts. Personal email accounts will be deleted and that will include all associated submissions found in the Turnitin system. For students who are required to submit their Turnitin papers through e-learning, it’s recommended to allow the pop up feature in your Internet browser before uploading papers to avoid the user agreement message. Remember that it is the decision of whoever is marking your assessment, not Turnitin, as to whether plagiarism has occurred or not. You can find further advice on Turnitin here Turnitin for students and here Turnitin through e-learning If you have further questions you should contact the Library team.

I feel as if my academic performance was impaired, what should I do?
The Q&V team is working to facilitate the submission of Impaired Performance claims and will update students once all the arrangements are in place.

Will these changes devalue my degree?
No, the University has taken great care whilst making these changes to maintain the quality of its degrees and the associated academic standards. All changes have been made in discussion and agreement with the Egyptian Supreme Council of Universities and our UK validating partners. Alternative forms of assessment will still allow you to meet the defined learning outcomes of your specified degree programme.

What support is available to me?

BUE will continue to support students through this challenging time to ensure you achieve your potential. Any questions regarding the nature or the requirements of assessed submissions should be directed to your relevant department. Any other queries should be directed to Quality and Validation through the email Q&Vstaff@bue.edu.eg. For general guidance on the University’s closure, COVID-19, advice on guidance for virtual learning and E-learning as well as Library contacts and queries you should refer to the General Guide for Students webpages. For information on Good Hygiene Practice, Self-isolation, Social Distancing and Mental Health Awareness please refer to the Staying Safe webpages. If you are experiencing IT (virtual learning, virtual interaction or E-learning) difficulties you should contact your Faculty eLearning coordinator, the dedicated BUE  IT & software support team softwareproductionunit@bue.edu.eg  or your module leader.

What should I do now?
Please stay engaged with your studies and continue to engage with your coursework, all virtual learning/eLearning activities and revision. Please send any questions to your module or programme leader in the first instance.

Please ensure you check your BUE email inbox regularly for further information.
BUE PRESIDENT COVID-19 UPDATE (7)

Dear BUE Community,

I hope this message finds you all well and safe.

Semester 2 teaching is now complete and I am sure both students and staff are now preparing for their end of Semester assessments. 

I would like to take this opportunity to thank all staff at BUE for their hard work and dedication which has made the move to online teaching a success despite the very difficult circumstances.

I would also like to thank BUE students and their families for their ongoing commitment to BUE and to commend them on how well they have made the transition to online learning. I wish you all success in your assessments.

I know it has been a stressful time for many students and you have been provided with a great deal of information regarding the many changes to your studies over the past weeks and the further changes to come.

In particular, I know many of you were very concerned regarding the directions from the Egyptian Supreme Council for Universities regarding repeating students and students with trailing modules and I received many emails from concerned students and their families.

I am very pleased to inform you that, following discussions with me and Presidents of other Egyptian universities, the Supreme Council has issued a revised decision for these students. Now, only repeating students and students with trailing modules in their final year will have to wait until campus reopens to sit final exams. All other years’ students will take alternative assessments from 30 May to 16 June. I would like to thank the Quality and Validation team who I know have dealt with a large number of queries on this issue.

To help students understand all the changes that have been made a ‘Question and Answer’ document follows at the end of this communication. Please read it carefully as it will cover all the questions you may have about how you will be affected by changes to assessment following the campus closure.

I hope I will see you all again on campus soon.

Best regards,

Professor Ahmed Hamad

BUE President

